#summary How to create an IntelliJ project for the datanucleus-appengine plugin.

= How To Create An IntelliJ Project For The !DataNucleus App Engine Plugin =
These instructions assume you are using IntelliJ 8.1.

 * Follow the instructions at http://code.google.com/p/datanucleus-appengine/source/checkout to checkout the source from svn.  The remainder of these instructions assume you checked out the source into a directory named "dnae" located in /usr/local/dev.
 * Launch IntelliJ
 * From the File menu select "New Project", choose "Create Java project from existing sources" from the next screen, and then click "Next."
 * In the next window, set the "Name" field to be "dnae" and the "Project files location" field to be "/usr/local/dev/dnae".   The value of the "Project storage format" drop-down should be ".ipr (file based)"
 * Click "Next."
 * IntelliJ will find 4 directories with source files.  Clear the checkbox for the one named "/usr/local/dev/dnae/testing/library/src"  Leave the other 3 selected and click "Next."
 * IntelliJ will create a library named "lib."  You don't want this.  Clear the checkbox next to the library named "lib."
 * IntelliJ will create two modules - one named "Dnae" and one named "Helloorm."  Leave both of these checked and click "Next."
 * IntelliJ will detect a total of 5 facets for these modules.  Clear the checkboxes next to all of them and click "Finish."
 * You should now have a project with two modules listed on the left: "Dnae" and "Helloorm."  The Google App Engine SDK supports java 5 so, in order to ensure that we don't accidentally introduce and java 6 dependencies we need to make sure we're compiling against a java 5 sdk.  To do this, right click on the "Dnaetest" module, choose "Project Structure," and then select "Project" from the list of options on the left.
 * Under "Project SDK," choose a Java 5 SDK.  Under "Project language level" make sure "5.0" is selected.
 * Select "Modules" from the list of options on the left and then select "Dnae" from the list that appears just to the right.
 * Click on the "Dependencies" tab, click the "Add" button, and then choose "Single-Entry Module Library" from the list that appears.
 * In the window that appears, navigate to /usr/local/dev/dnae/lib and select the following jars:
    * appengine-api-stubs.jar
    * appengine-api.jar
    * appengine-local-runtime.jar
    * asm-3.1.jar
    * datanucleus-core-1.1.0.jar
    * datanucleus-jpa-1.1.0.jar
    * easymock.jar
    * geronimo-jpa_3.0_spec-1.1.1.jar
    * jdo2-api-2.3-SNAPSHOT.jar
    * junit.jar
    * log4j-1.2.9.jar
 * Do not include datanucleus-enhancer-1.1.0.jar.  We are leaving this out intentionally.
 * Click "OK"
 * Now select "Helloorm."  Click on the "Dependencies" tab, click the "Add" button, and then choose "Single-Entry Module Library" from the list that appears.
 * In the window that appears, navigate to /usr/local/dev/dnae/lib and select the following jars:
   * geronimo-jpa_3.0_spec-1.1.1.jar
   * geronimo-servlet_2.5_spec-1.2.jar
   * jdo2-api-2.3-SNAPSHOT.jar
 * Click "OK"
 * Click "OK" again
 * Now we need to tell the compiler about a couple of file types that it doesn't consider by default.  Go to the "File" menu and select "Settings."  Then, on the left, select "Compiler."
 * In the "Resource 
    * You should now be able to build the project:  Go to the "Build" menu and select "Rebuild Project."

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages